docs/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/workbook/flavors/Full/_index.md, before:

---
type: docs
title: "Jumpstart ArcBox - Azure Monitor Workbook"
weight: 99
toc_hide: true
---

# Jumpstart ArcBox - Azure Monitor Workbook

[ArcBox](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/) is a solution that provides an easy to deploy sandbox for all things Azure Arc. This document provides specific guidance on the included ArcBox [Azure Monitor Workbook](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/visualize/workbooks-overview). Please refer to the main [ArcBox documentation](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/) for information on deploying and using ArcBox.

As part of ArcBox, an Azure Monitor workbook is deployed to provide a single pane of glass for monitoring and reporting on ArcBox resources. Using Azure's management and operations tools in hybrid, multi-cloud and edge deployments provides the consistency needed to manage each environment through a common set of governance and operations management practices. The Azure Monitor workbook acts as a flexible canvas for data analysis and visualization in the Azure portal, gathering information from several data sources from across ArcBox and combining them into an integrated interactive experience.

   > **NOTE: Due to the number of Azure resources included in a single ArcBox deployment and the data ingestion and analysis required, it is expected that metrics and telemetry for the workbook can take several hours to be fully available.**

## Access the ArcBox workbook

The Jumpstart ArcBox workbook is automatically deployed for you as part of ArcBox's advanced automation. To access the Jumpstart ArcBox workbook use the Azure portal to follow the next steps.

- Navigate to your ArcBox resource group and search for your Log Analytics workspace, you can do so by using the filter "Type" and searching for "Log Analytics workspace".

![Search Log Analytics workspace](./search_workspace.png)

- After you apply the filter in the ArcBox resource group you will get the Log Analytics workspace resource.

![Log Analytics workspace in resource group](./workspace_in_rg.png)

- Access the Log Analytics workspace by clicking on its name and under "General" select "Workbooks".

![General workbooks](./general_workbooks.png)

- In the Workbooks Gallery select the "ArcBox Workbook".

![Workbook Gallery](./workbooks_access.png)

- The Jumpstart ArcBox Workbook will be displayed.

![Arcbox workbook overview](./workbook_overview.png)

## ArcBox Workbook capabilities

The ArcBox Workbook is a single report that combines data from different sources and services, providing a unified view across resources, enabling richer data and insights for unified operations.

The Workbook is organized into several tabs that provide easier navigation and separation of concerns.

![Tab Menu](./tab_menu.png)

### Inventory

By using Azure Arc, your on-premises and multi-cloud resources become visible through Azure Resource Manager. Therefore, you can use tools such as Azure Resource Graph as a way to explore your inventory at scale. Your Azure Resource Graph queries can now include Azure Arc-enabled resources with filtering, using tags, or tracking changes.

The "Inventory" tab in the ArcBox Workbook has three sections:

- _parameters_ - use the drop-down menu to select your subscription and resource group, you also get the option to filter the report by resource type.

   ![Inventory Parameters](./inventory_parameters.png)

- *Resource Count by Type* - this visualization shows the number of resources by type within a resource group, these grouping will be automatically refreshed if the parameters section is changed.

   ![Inventory Resource by type](./inventory_count_by_type.png)

- _Resource List_ - this table shows a list of resources in the resource group provided in the parameters section. This is an interactive list, therefore you can click on any resource or tag for additional information.

   ![Inventory Resource List](./inventory_resource_list.png)

### Monitoring

Enabling a resource in Azure Arc gives you the ability to perform configuration management and monitoring tasks on those services as if they were first-class citizens in Azure. You are able to monitor your connected machine guest operating system performance and your Kubernetes clusters at the scope of the resource with VM and container Insights. In ArcBox the Azure Arc-enabled servers and Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters have been onboarded onto Azure Monitor.

The "Monitoring" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows metrics and alerts for ArcBox resources organized in three sections:

- _Alert Summary_ - Shows an overview of alerts organized by severity and status. You can use the drop-down menus to apply filters to the report. The following filters are available:
  - Subscription: select one or multiple subscriptions in your environment to show available alerts.
  - Resource Group: select one or more resource groups in your environment to show available alerts.
  - Resource Type: select one or multiple resource types to show its alerts.
  - Resources: select individual resources by name to visualize their alerts.
  - Time Range: provide a time range in which the alert has been created.
  - State: choose the alert type between New, Acknowledged, or Closed.

   ![Monitoring Alert Summary](./monitoring_alert_summary.png)

- _Azure Arc-enabled servers_ - Shows metrics for CPU and memory usage on the Azure Arc-enabled servers. Use the parameters section to select the Azure Arc-enabled server as well as a time range to visualize the data.

   ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled Server Metrics](./monitoring_arc_servers.png)

- _Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes_ - Shows information and metrics from ArcBox's Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters. Use the parameters section to filter data:
  - Time Range: provide a time range for the metrics and logs to be displayed.
  - Subscription: select your subscription where ArcBox is deployed.
  - Log Analytics Workspace: select ArcBox's Log Analytics workspace.
  - Azure Arcenabled K8s cluster: choose one of ArcBox's Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters.
  - Workload Type: choose one or multiple kubernetes deployment types.
  - Namespace: choose one or multiple namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.
  - Workload Name: choose one of the deployments in your cluster.
  - Pod Status: filter by Pod status like Pending/Running/Failed etc.
  - Pod Name: filter by pod name in the namespace and workload name selected.

  With this report you will get several visualizations:

  - _Pod and Container restart trend graphs._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_1.png)

  - _Pod count and status chart._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_2.png)

  - _A list of the container status for pods._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_3.png)

  - _The Kubernetes cluster's nodes CPU and memory working set percentage._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_4.png)

### Security

Microsoft Defender for Cloud can monitor the security posture of your hybrid and multi-cloud deployments that have been onboarded onto Azure Arc. Once those deployments are registered in Azure, you can take care of the security baseline and audit, apply, or automate requirements from recommended security controls as well as identify and provide mitigation guidance for security-related business risks.

The "Security" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Microsoft Defender for Cloud assessments. To be able to use this report, you will need to configure "continuous export" capability to export Microsoft Defender for Cloud's data to ArcBox's Log Analytics workspace:

- From Microsoft Defender for Cloud's sidebar, select Environment Settings.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_1.png)

- Select the specific subscription for which you want to configure the data export.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_2.png)

- From the sidebar of the settings page for that subscription, select Continuous Export, set the export target to the Log Analytics workspace, and set the data types to Security recommendations and Secure Score (Preview) and leave the export frequency at the default values.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_3.png)

- Make sure to select ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace as the export target. Select Save.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_4.png)

Once configured, the report will provide an overview of the secure score, you can filter information by using the parameters section:

- _Workspace_ -  Select one or multiple Log Analytics workspaces.

- _Time Range_ -  Filter the data of the report to one of the predefined time ranges.

   ![Security parameters](./security_parameters.png)

  With this report you will get several visualizations:

  - _Current score trends per subscription_

     ![Security workbook trends](./security_trends.png)

  - _Aggregated score for selected subscriptions over time_

     ![Security workbook aggregated score](./security_score.png)

  - _Top recommendations with the recent increase in unhealthy resources_
  
     ![Security tab top recommendations](./security_recommendations.png)

  - _Security controls scores over time (weekly)_

     ![Security controls scores overtime](./security_controls.png)

  - _Resources changed over time_ - To view changes over time on a specific recommendation, please select any from the list above.

     ![Resources changed overtime](./security_changes.png)

     ![Resources changed overtime selected resources](./security_changes_resource.png)

This part of the workbook also includes a section dedicated to agent monitoring. For Microsoft Defender for Cloud to be able to monitor an Azure Arc enabled-servers certain configurations have to be in place and the workbook will help visualize machines that may not be properly reporting to the Log Analytics workspace.

In the parameters section select the Log Analytics workspace used by ArcBox.

   ![Resources changed overtime](./agentmgmt_parameters.png)

From within the Agent Monitoring section you will get several tabs:

- _Overview_ - with three visualizations:

  - _Log Analytics Agent installation status_ shows the Log Analytics Agent installation status as reported by Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

     ![Log Analytics Agent installation status](./agentmgmt_overviewstatus.png)

  - _Log Analytics Agent reporting status_ shows the current Log Analytics Agent reporting status of the Azure Arc-enabled servers. Machines that are sending current heartbeat information within the last 15 minutes are considered as currently reporting.

     ![Log Analytics Agent reporting status](./agentmgmt_overviewsreport.png)

  - _Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage_ shows the status of Microsoft Defender for Cloud for Servers across all servers that are protected by Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

     ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage](./agentmgmt_overviewscoverage.png)

- _Machines not reporting to Log Analytics workspace_ - this has four lists of machines that are not sending heartbeats to the Log Analytics workspace in different periods of time: 15 minutes, 24 hours, 48 hours and 7 days. Please not that there are no machines listed on the image as all of them are properly sending heartbeats to the workspace.

   ![Machines not reporting](./agentmgmt_machinesnotreport.png)

- _Security status_ - has a full report of Azure VMs and Azure Arc enabled-servers security configurations including its Log Analytics workspace and the agent status.

   ![Security Status](./agentmgmt_securitystatus.png)

### Change Tracking

Change Tracking in Azure Automation keeps track of the changes in virtual machines hosted in Azure, on-premises, and other cloud environments to help you pinpoint operational and environmental issues with software managed by the Distribution Package Manager.

In Jumpstart ArcBox all of the Azure Arc-enabled servers are onboarded onto Change Tracking and Inventory. The "Change Tracking" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Azure Automation. To use this report you need to provide ArcBox's subscription and Log Analytics workspace in the parameters section along with a time range.

   ![Change Tracking Parameters](./changetracking_parameters.png)

The tab has two different sections:

- _Software Inventory_ - This section provides a distinct count of publishers and applications for the servers selected. You can filter data by computer, publisher, or application.

   ![Change Tracking Software Inventory](./changetracking_software.png)

- _Windows Services_ - This section shows a table of Windows services with their state, account, and path.

   ![Change Tracking Windows Services](./changetracking_services.png)

### Update Management

Azure Automation provides Update Management to take care of the operating system updates for Windows and Linux  Azure VMs or Azure Arc-enabled servers.

The solution assesses the status of available updates and manages the process of installing required updates for your machines reporting to Update Management. In ArcBox, all of the Azure Arc-enabled servers are onboarded onto Update Management with the "Update Management" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Azure Automation.

To use this report you need to provide ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace in the parameters section along with a time range.

   ![Update Management parameters](./update_parameters.png)

The tab has two different sections, one for Windows and one for Linux machines:

- _Windows VM Updates_ - This section provides several reports:

  - _Types of Windows Updates_ - This donut chart shows the number of Windows Updates grouped by type.

   ![Update Windows Updates](./update_windows.png)

  - _Top Windows VMs with Updates_ - Shows the top Windows machines with updates available and the number of updates per machine.

   ![ Update Windows Top](./update_windows_top.png)

  - _Update Summary_ - Shows a table with the updates available for each of the Windows machines and its severity. By selecting one of the names of the resources, you will get additional information on the available updates.

   ![ Update Windows Summary](./update_windows_summary.png)

- _Linux VM Updates_ - This section provides several reports:

  - _Types of Linux Updates_ - This donut chart shows the number of Windows Updates grouped by type.

   ![Update Linux Updates](./update_linux.png)

  - _Top Linux VMs with Updates_ - Shows the top Linux machines with updates available and the number of updates per machine.

   ![ Update Linux Top](./update_linux_top.png)

  - _Update Summary_ - Shows a table with the updates available for each of the Linux machines and its severity. By selecting one of the names of the resources, you will get additional information on the available updates.

   ![ Update Linux Summary](./update_linux_summary.png)

### SQL Healthcheck

The Azure Monitor SQL Health Check solution assesses the risk and health of your Windows-based SQL Server instance that is connected to Azure Arc. The solution provides a prioritized list of recommendations specific to your deployed server infrastructure. Each recommendation provides guidance based on best practices and how to implement the suggested changes.

ArcBox has one Windows VM running SQL Server that is onboarded as Azure Arc-enabled SQL server (as well as an Azure Arc-enabled server) where the SQL Assessment has been run. To use the "SQL Healthcheck" tab of the ArcBox workbooks you need to provide ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace as parameters.

   ![SQL Healthcheck parameters](./sql_healthcheck_parameters.png)

The report will display the results of the assessment in four sections:

- _Security and compliance_ - This section has three different reports for all security and compliance recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the security and compliance recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance status](./sql_healthcheck_security_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance priority](./sql_healthcheck_security_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_security_recommendations.png)

- _High availability and business continuity_ - This section has three different reports for all high availability and business continuity recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the high availability and business continuity recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA status](./sql_healthcheck_ha_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA priority](./sql_healthcheck_ha_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_ha_recommendations.png)

- _Performance and scalability_ - This section has three different reports for all performance and scalability recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the performance and scalability recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance status](./sql_healthcheck_performance_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance priority](./sql_healthcheck_performance_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_performance_recommendations.png)

- _Upgrade, migration, and deployment_ - This section has three different reports for all upgrade, migration, and deployment recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the upgrade, migration, and deployment recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade status](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade priority](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_recommendations.png)

Commit message:

Azure workbook Full updates to screenshots

docs/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/workbook/flavors/Full/_index.md, after:

---
type: docs
title: "Jumpstart ArcBox - Azure Monitor Workbook"
weight: 99
toc_hide: true
---

# Jumpstart ArcBox - Azure Monitor Workbook

[ArcBox](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/) is a solution that provides an easy to deploy sandbox for all things Azure Arc. This document provides specific guidance on the included ArcBox [Azure Monitor Workbook](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/visualize/workbooks-overview). Please refer to the main [ArcBox documentation](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_jumpstart_arcbox/) for information on deploying and using ArcBox.

As part of ArcBox, an Azure Monitor workbook is deployed to provide a single pane of glass for monitoring and reporting on ArcBox resources. Using Azure's management and operations tools in hybrid, multi-cloud and edge deployments provides the consistency needed to manage each environment through a common set of governance and operations management practices. The Azure Monitor workbook acts as a flexible canvas for data analysis and visualization in the Azure portal, gathering information from several data sources from across ArcBox and combining them into an integrated interactive experience.

   > **NOTE: Due to the number of Azure resources included in a single ArcBox deployment and the data ingestion and analysis required, it is expected that metrics and telemetry for the workbook can take several hours to be fully available.**

## Access the ArcBox workbook

The Jumpstart ArcBox workbook is automatically deployed for you as part of ArcBox's advanced automation. To access the Jumpstart ArcBox workbook use the Azure portal to follow the next steps.

- From the ArcBox resource group, select the Azure Workbook, then click "Open Workbook"

![Workbook Gallery](./azure_workbook.png)

![Workbook Gallery](./open_workbook.png)

- The Jumpstart ArcBox Workbook will be displayed.

![Arcbox workbook overview](./workbook_overview.png)

## ArcBox Workbook capabilities

The ArcBox Workbook is a single report that combines data from different sources and services, providing a unified view across resources, enabling richer data and insights for unified operations.

The Workbook is organized into several tabs that provide easier navigation and separation of concerns.

![Tab Menu](./tab_menu.png)

### Inventory

By using Azure Arc, your on-premises and multi-cloud resources become visible through Azure Resource Manager. Therefore, you can use tools such as Azure Resource Graph as a way to explore your inventory at scale. Your Azure Resource Graph queries can now include Azure Arc-enabled resources with filtering, using tags, or tracking changes.

The "Inventory" tab in the ArcBox Workbook has three sections:

- _parameters_ - use the drop-down menu to select your subscription and resource group, you also get the option to filter the report by resource type.

   ![Inventory Parameters](./inventory_parameters.png)

- *Resource Count by Type* - this visualization shows the number of resources by type within a resource group, these grouping will be automatically refreshed if the parameters section is changed.

   ![Inventory Resource by type](./inventory_count_by_type.png)

- _Resource List_ - this table shows a list of resources in the resource group provided in the parameters section. This is an interactive list, therefore you can click on any resource or tag for additional information.

   ![Inventory Resource List](./inventory_resource_list.png)

### Monitoring

Enabling a resource in Azure Arc gives you the ability to perform configuration management and monitoring tasks on those services as if they were first-class citizens in Azure. You are able to monitor your connected machine guest operating system performance and your Kubernetes clusters at the scope of the resource with VM and container Insights. In ArcBox the Azure Arc-enabled servers and Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters have been onboarded onto Azure Monitor.

The "Monitoring" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows metrics and alerts for ArcBox resources organized in three sections:

- _Alert Summary_ - Shows an overview of alerts organized by severity and status. You can use the drop-down menus to apply filters to the report. The following filters are available:
  - Subscription: select one or multiple subscriptions in your environment to show available alerts.
  - Resource Group: select one or more resource groups in your environment to show available alerts.
  - Resource Type: select one or multiple resource types to show its alerts.
  - Resources: select individual resources by name to visualize their alerts.
  - Time Range: provide a time range in which the alert has been created.
  - State: choose the alert type between New, Acknowledged, or Closed.

   ![Monitoring Alert Summary](./monitoring_alert_summary.png)

- _Azure Arc-enabled servers_ - Shows metrics for CPU and memory usage on the Azure Arc-enabled servers. Use the parameters section to select the Azure Arc-enabled server as well as a time range to visualize the data.

   ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled Server Metrics](./monitoring_arc_servers.png)

- _Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes_ - Shows information and metrics from ArcBox's Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters. Use the parameters section to filter data:
  - Time Range: provide a time range for the metrics and logs to be displayed.
  - Subscription: select your subscription where ArcBox is deployed.
  - Log Analytics Workspace: select ArcBox's Log Analytics workspace.
  - Azure Arcenabled K8s cluster: choose one of ArcBox's Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters.
  - Workload Type: choose one or multiple kubernetes deployment types.
  - Namespace: choose one or multiple namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.
  - Workload Name: choose one of the deployments in your cluster.
  - Pod Status: filter by Pod status like Pending/Running/Failed etc.
  - Pod Name: filter by pod name in the namespace and workload name selected.

  With this report you will get several visualizations:

  - _Pod and Container restart trend graphs._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_1.png)

  - _Pod count and status chart._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_2.png)

  - _A list of the container status for pods._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_3.png)

  - _The Kubernetes cluster's nodes CPU and memory working set percentage._

     ![Monitoring Azure Arc enabled K8S Metrics](./monitoring_arc_kubernetes_4.png)

### Security

Microsoft Defender for Cloud can monitor the security posture of your hybrid and multi-cloud deployments that have been onboarded onto Azure Arc. Once those deployments are registered in Azure, you can take care of the security baseline and audit, apply, or automate requirements from recommended security controls as well as identify and provide mitigation guidance for security-related business risks.

The "Security" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Microsoft Defender for Cloud assessments. To be able to use this report, you will need to configure "continuous export" capability to export Microsoft Defender for Cloud's data to ArcBox's Log Analytics workspace:

- From Microsoft Defender for Cloud's sidebar, select Environment Settings.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_1.png)

- Select the specific subscription for which you want to configure the data export.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_2.png)

- From the sidebar of the settings page for that subscription, select Continuous Export, set the export target to the Log Analytics workspace, and set the data types to Security recommendations and Secure Score (Preview) and leave the export frequency at the default values.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_3.png)

- Make sure to select ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace as the export target. Select Save.

   ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud Configuration](./security_center_config_4.png)

Once configured, the report will provide an overview of the secure score, you can filter information by using the parameters section:

- _Workspace_ -  Select one or multiple Log Analytics workspaces.

- _Time Range_ -  Filter the data of the report to one of the predefined time ranges.

   ![Security parameters](./security_parameters.png)

  With this report you will get several visualizations:

  - _Current score trends per subscription_

     ![Security workbook trends](./security_trends.png)

  - _Aggregated score for selected subscriptions over time_

     ![Security workbook aggregated score](./security_score.png)

  - _Top recommendations with the recent increase in unhealthy resources_
  
     ![Security tab top recommendations](./security_recommendations.png)

  - _Security controls scores over time (weekly)_

     ![Security controls scores overtime](./security_controls.png)

  - _Resources changed over time_ - To view changes over time on a specific recommendation, please select any from the list above.

     ![Resources changed overtime](./security_changes.png)

     ![Resources changed overtime selected resources](./security_changes_resource.png)

This part of the workbook also includes a section dedicated to agent monitoring. For Microsoft Defender for Cloud to be able to monitor an Azure Arc enabled-servers certain configurations have to be in place and the workbook will help visualize machines that may not be properly reporting to the Log Analytics workspace.

In the parameters section select the Log Analytics workspace used by ArcBox.

   ![Resources changed overtime](./agentmgmt_parameters.png)

From within the Agent Monitoring section you will get several tabs:

- _Overview_ - with three visualizations:

  - _Log Analytics Agent installation status_ shows the Log Analytics Agent installation status as reported by Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

     ![Log Analytics Agent installation status](./agentmgmt_overviewstatus.png)

  - _Log Analytics Agent reporting status_ shows the current Log Analytics Agent reporting status of the Azure Arc-enabled servers. Machines that are sending current heartbeat information within the last 15 minutes are considered as currently reporting.

     ![Log Analytics Agent reporting status](./agentmgmt_overviewsreport.png)

  - _Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage_ shows the status of Microsoft Defender for Cloud for Servers across all servers that are protected by Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

     ![Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage](./agentmgmt_overviewscoverage.png)

- _Machines not reporting to Log Analytics workspace_ - this has four lists of machines that are not sending heartbeats to the Log Analytics workspace in different periods of time: 15 minutes, 24 hours, 48 hours and 7 days. Please not that there are no machines listed on the image as all of them are properly sending heartbeats to the workspace.

   ![Machines not reporting](./agentmgmt_machinesnotreport.png)

- _Security status_ - has a full report of Azure VMs and Azure Arc enabled-servers security configurations including its Log Analytics workspace and the agent status.

   ![Security Status](./agentmgmt_securitystatus.png)

### Change Tracking

Change Tracking in Azure Automation keeps track of the changes in virtual machines hosted in Azure, on-premises, and other cloud environments to help you pinpoint operational and environmental issues with software managed by the Distribution Package Manager.

In Jumpstart ArcBox all of the Azure Arc-enabled servers are onboarded onto Change Tracking and Inventory. The "Change Tracking" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Azure Automation. To use this report you need to provide ArcBox's subscription and Log Analytics workspace in the parameters section along with a time range.

   ![Change Tracking Parameters](./changetracking_parameters.png)

The tab has two different sections:

- _Software Inventory_ - This section provides a distinct count of publishers and applications for the servers selected. You can filter data by computer, publisher, or application.

   ![Change Tracking Software Inventory](./changetracking_software.png)

- _Windows Services_ - This section shows a table of Windows services with their state, account, and path.

   ![Change Tracking Windows Services](./changetracking_services.png)

### Update Management

Azure Automation provides Update Management to take care of the operating system updates for Windows and Linux  Azure VMs or Azure Arc-enabled servers.

The solution assesses the status of available updates and manages the process of installing required updates for your machines reporting to Update Management. In ArcBox, all of the Azure Arc-enabled servers are onboarded onto Update Management with the "Update Management" tab of the Jumpstart Workbook shows insights from Azure Automation.

To use this report you need to provide ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace in the parameters section along with a time range.

   ![Update Management parameters](./update_parameters.png)

The tab has two different sections, one for Windows and one for Linux machines:

- _Windows VM Updates_ - This section provides several reports:

  - _Types of Windows Updates_ - This donut chart shows the number of Windows Updates grouped by type.

   ![Update Windows Updates](./update_windows.png)

  - _Top Windows VMs with Updates_ - Shows the top Windows machines with updates available and the number of updates per machine.

   ![ Update Windows Top](./update_windows_top.png)

  - _Update Summary_ - Shows a table with the updates available for each of the Windows machines and its severity. By selecting one of the names of the resources, you will get additional information on the available updates.

   ![ Update Windows Summary](./update_windows_summary.png)

- _Linux VM Updates_ - This section provides several reports:

  - _Types of Linux Updates_ - This donut chart shows the number of Windows Updates grouped by type.

   ![Update Linux Updates](./update_linux.png)

  - _Top Linux VMs with Updates_ - Shows the top Linux machines with updates available and the number of updates per machine.

   ![ Update Linux Top](./update_linux_top.png)

  - _Update Summary_ - Shows a table with the updates available for each of the Linux machines and its severity. By selecting one of the names of the resources, you will get additional information on the available updates.

   ![ Update Linux Summary](./update_linux_summary.png)

### SQL Healthcheck

The Azure Monitor SQL Health Check solution assesses the risk and health of your Windows-based SQL Server instance that is connected to Azure Arc. The solution provides a prioritized list of recommendations specific to your deployed server infrastructure. Each recommendation provides guidance based on best practices and how to implement the suggested changes.

ArcBox has one Windows VM running SQL Server that is onboarded as Azure Arc-enabled SQL server (as well as an Azure Arc-enabled server) where the SQL Assessment has been run. To use the "SQL Healthcheck" tab of the ArcBox workbooks you need to provide ArcBox's subscription, resource group, and Log Analytics workspace as parameters.

   ![SQL Healthcheck parameters](./sql_healthcheck_parameters.png)

The report will display the results of the assessment in four sections:

- _Security and compliance_ - This section has three different reports for all security and compliance recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the security and compliance recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance status](./sql_healthcheck_security_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance priority](./sql_healthcheck_security_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck security and compliance status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_security_recommendations.png)

- _High availability and business continuity_ - This section has three different reports for all high availability and business continuity recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the high availability and business continuity recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA status](./sql_healthcheck_ha_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA priority](./sql_healthcheck_ha_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck HA status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_ha_recommendations.png)

- _Performance and scalability_ - This section has three different reports for all performance and scalability recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the performance and scalability recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance status](./sql_healthcheck_performance_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance priority](./sql_healthcheck_performance_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck performance status recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_performance_recommendations.png)

- _Upgrade, migration, and deployment_ - This section has three different reports for all upgrade, migration, and deployment recommendations. The first one shows the results for all the checks grouped by status: passed, failed, or inconclusive. The second report shows a donut chart with the recommendations grouped by priority low, medium, or high. Finally, there is a list with all of the upgrade, migration, and deployment recommendations.

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade status](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_status.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade priority](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_priority.png)

   ![SQL Healthcheck upgrade recommendations](./sql_healthcheck_upgrade_recommendations.png)
