docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_app_svc/aks/aks_logic_app_arm_template/_index.md, before:

---
type: docs
title: "Azure Logic App ARM Template"
linkTitle: "Azure Logic App ARM Template"
weight: 3
description: >
---

## Deploy Azure Logic App on AKS using an ARM Template

The following README will guide you on how to deploy a "Ready to Go" environment so you can start using [Azure Arc-enabled app services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration) deployed on [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes) cluster using [Azure ARM Template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview).

By the end of this guide, you will have an AKS cluster deployed with an App Service plan, a sample Azure Logic App that reads messages from an Azure storage account queue and creates blobs in an Azure storage account container, and a Microsoft Windows Server 2022 (Datacenter) Azure VM installed & pre-configured with all the required tools needed to work with Azure Arc-enabled app services.

> **Note: Currently, Azure Arc-enabled app services is in preview.**

## Prerequisites

* Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

* [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.25.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  az --version
  ```

* [Generate SSH Key](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/create-ssh-keys-detailed) (or use existing ssh key).

* Create Azure service principal (SP). To deploy this scenario, an Azure service principal assigned with multiple RBAC roles is required:

  * "Contributor" - Required for provisioning Azure resources
  * "Security admin" - Required for installing Cloud Defender Azure-Arc enabled Kubernetes extension and dismiss alerts
  * "Security reader" - Required for being able to view Azure-Arc enabled Kubernetes Cloud Defender extension findings

    To create it login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/).

    ```shell
    az login
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Contributor"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Security admin"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Security reader"
    ```

    For example:

    ```shell
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Contributor"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Security admin"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Security reader"
    ```

    Output should look like this:

    ```json
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcAppSvc",
    "name": "http://AzureArcAppSvc",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```

    > **Note: It is optional, but highly recommended, to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).**

## Automation Flow

For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

* User is editing the ARM template parameters file (1-time edit). These parameters values are being used throughout the deployment.

* Main [_azuredeploy_ ARM template](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json) will initiate the deployment of the linked ARM templates:

  * [_clientVm_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/clientVm.json) - Deploys the client Windows VM. This is where all user interactions with the environment are made from.
  * [_logAnalytics_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/logAnalytics.json) - Deploys Azure Log Analytics workspace to support Azure Arc-enabled app services logs uploads.

* User remotes into client Windows VM, which automatically kicks off the [_AppServicesLogonScript_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/AppServicesLogonScript.ps1) PowerShell script that deploy the AKS cluster and will configure Azure Arc-enabled app services Kubernetes environment on the AKS cluster.

    > **Note: Notice the AKS cluster will be deployed via the PowerShell script automation.**

## Deployment

As mentioned, this deployment will leverage ARM templates. You will deploy a single template that will initiate the entire automation for this scenario.

* The deployment is using the ARM template parameters file. Before initiating the deployment, edit the [_azuredeploy.parameters.json_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.json) file located in your local cloned repository folder. An example parameters file is located [here](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/azuredeploy.parameters.example.json).

  * _`sshRSAPublicKey`_ - Your SSH public key
  * _`spnClientId`_ - Your Azure service principal id
  * _`spnClientSecret`_ - Your Azure service principal secret
  * _`spnTenantId`_ - Your Azure tenant id
  * _`windowsAdminUsername`_ - Client Windows VM Administrator name
  * _`windowsAdminPassword`_ - Client Windows VM Password. Password must have 3 of the following: 1 lower case character, 1 upper case character, 1 number, and 1 special character. The value must be between 12 and 123 characters long.
  * _`myIpAddress`_ - Your local public IP address. This is used to allow remote RDP and SSH connections to the client Windows VM and AKS cluster.
  * _`logAnalyticsWorkspaceName`_ - Unique name for the deployment log analytics workspace.
  * _`kubernetesVersion`_ - AKS version
  * _`dnsPrefix`_ - AKS unique DNS prefix
  * _`deployAppService`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and a Web App. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployAPIMgmt`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy a self-hosted Azure API Management gateway. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployFunction`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and an Azure Function application. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployLogicApp`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and an Azure Logic App. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**true**_.
  * _`templateBaseUrl`_ - GitHub URL to the deployment template - filled in by default to point to [Microsoft/Azure Arc](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc) repository, but you can point this to your forked repo as well.

* To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the local cloned [deployment folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template) and run the below command:

    ```shell
    az group create --name <Name of the Azure resource group> --location <Azure Region>
    az deployment group create \
    --resource-group <Name of the Azure resource group> \
    --name <The name of this deployment> \
    --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/azure_arc/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json \
    --parameters <The *azuredeploy.parameters.json* parameters file location>
    ```

    > **Note: Make sure that you are using the same Azure resource group name as the one you've just used in the `azuredeploy.parameters.json` file**

    For example:

    ```shell
    az group create --name Arc-AppSvc-Demo --location "East US"
    az deployment group create \
    --resource-group Arc-AppSvc-Demo \
    --name arcappsvc \
    --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/azure_arc/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json \
    --parameters azuredeploy.parameters.json
    ```

    > **Note: The deployment time for this scenario can take ~5-10min**

    > **Note: Since Azure Arc-enabled app services is [currently in preview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#public-preview-limitations), deployment regions availability is limited to East US and West Europe.**

* Once Azure resources has been provisioned, you will be able to see it in Azure portal. At this point, the resource group should have **7 various Azure resources** deployed.

    ![ARM template deployment completed](./01.png)

    ![New Azure resource group with all resources](./02.png)

## Windows Login & Post Deployment

* Now that first phase of the automation is completed, it is time to RDP to the client VM using its public IP.

    ![Client VM public IP](./03.png)

* At first login, as mentioned in the "Automation Flow" section above, the [_AppServicesLogonScript_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/AppServicesLogonScript.ps1) PowerShell logon script will start its run.

* Let the script run its course and **do not close** the PowerShell session as this will be done for you once completed. Once the script will finish its run, the logon script PowerShell session will be closed, the Windows wallpaper will change and the Azure Logic App will be deployed on the cluster and ready to use.

    > **Note: As you will notice from the screenshots below, during the Azure Arc-enabled app services environment, the _log-processor_ service pods will be restarted and will go through multiple Kubernetes pod lifecycle stages. This is normal and can safely be ignored. To learn more about the various Azure Arc-enabled app services Kubernetes components, visit the official [Azure Docs page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#pods-created-by-the-app-service-extension).**

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./04.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./05.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./06.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./07.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./08.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./09.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./10.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./11.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./12.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./13.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./14.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./15.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./16.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./17.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./18.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./19.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./20.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./21.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./22.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./23.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./24.png)

  Once the script finishes its run, the logon script PowerShell session will be closed, the Windows wallpaper will change, and both the app service plan and the Azure Logic App deployed on the cluster will be ready.

    ![Wallpaper change](./25.png)

* Since this scenario is deploying both the app service plan and a sample Logic App application, you will also notice additional, newly deployed Azure resources in the resources group. The important ones to notice are:

  * **Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster** - Azure Arc-enabled app services are using this resource to deploy the app services [cluster extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-extensions), as well as using Azure Arc [Custom locations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-custom-locations).

  * **Custom location** - Provides a way for tenant administrators to use their Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters as a target location for deploying Azure services.

  * [**App Service Kubernetes Environment**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#app-service-kubernetes-environment) - The App Service Kubernetes environment resource is required before apps may be created. It enables configuration common to apps in the custom location, such as the default DNS suffix.

  * [**App Service plan**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-hosting-plans) - In App Service (Web Apps, API Apps, or Mobile Apps), an app always runs in an App Service plan. In addition, Azure Logic Apps also has the option of running in an App Service plan. An App Service plan defines a set of compute resources for an Azure Logic App to run.

  * [**Azure Logic App**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview) - Azure Logic Apps is a cloud-based platform for creating and running automated workflows that integrate your apps, data, services, and systems.

  * [**API Connection**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/connectors/apis-list)A connector provides prebuilt operations that you can use as steps in your Logic Apps workflows.

  * [Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) - Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps professionals. Use it to monitor your live applications.

  * Azure Storage Account - The storage account deployed in this scenario is used for hosting the [queue storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/queues/storage-queues-introduction) and [blob storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction) where the Azure Logic App will be creating files in response to messages in a queue.

  ![Additional Azure resources in the resource group](./26.png)

* In this scenario, **a sample Jumpstart Azure Logic App** was deployed. To view the deployed Logic App, simply click the Azure Logic App resource.

  ![Azure Logic App resource](./27.png)

* You can view the Logic App workflow by clicking on "Workflows" and then clicking the workflow name "CreateBlobFromQueueMessage".

  ![Azure Logic App detail](./28.png)

  ![Azure Logic App detail](./29.png)

* To demonstrate the messaging queuing element and to show how blobs are created when messages are read from the queue storage, the Azure Logic App deployment script also generates 10 sample queue messages. To view it, click on the newly created storage account and go to the "Queues" section where you will see the queue named "jumpstart-queue". Note that the queue will be empty because the workflow automatically deletes messages from the queue after creating a new blob in the "jumpstart-blobs" container.

  ![Azure storage account](./30.png)

  ![Azure storage queue](./31.png)

* Go back to the Azure storage account and click on Containers. From here you will see the "jumpstart-blobs" container. Open this container and view the blobs that were created by the Logic App.

  ![Azure storage container](./32.png)

  ![Azure storage blobs](./33.png)

* Alternatively, you can view the storage details using the Azure Storage Explorer client application installed automatically in the Client VM or using the Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view.

  ![Azure Storage Explorer client application storage queue](./34.png)

  ![Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view](./35.png)

  ![Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view storage queue](./36.png)

* To generate your own blobs using the Logic App, create a new message in the queue by using Azure Storage Explorer and clicking Add Message as shown below.

  ![Add queue message](./37.png)

  ![Add queue message](./38.png)

  ![Add queue message](./39.png)

* Go back to the storage container and see the new added blob that was created automatically by the Logic App.

  ![New message in storage queue](./40.png)

* As part of the deployment, an Application Insights instance was also provisioned to provide you with relevant performance and application telemetry.

  ![Application Insights instance](./41.png)

## Cluster extensions

In this scenario, the Azure Arc-enabled app services cluster extension was deployed and used throughout this scenario in order to deploy the app services infrastructure.

* In order to view cluster extensions, click on the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource Extensions settings.

  ![Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource](./42.png)

  ![Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster extensions settings](./43.png)

## Cleanup

* If you want to delete the entire environment, simply delete the deployed resource group from the Azure portal.

  ![Delete Azure resource group](./44.png)

Commit message:

advisory warning on known CLI issue

docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_app_svc/aks/aks_logic_app_arm_template/_index.md, after:

---
type: docs
title: "Azure Logic App ARM Template"
linkTitle: "Azure Logic App ARM Template"
weight: 3
description: >
---

> **ADVISORY: An known issue affecting Azure CLI Kubernetes extensions is causing problems with automation in Jumpstart Kubernetes scenarios, data and app services scenarios, and ArcBox where the Azure CLI Kubernetes extensions are used. This issue will result result in incomplete or failed deployments. Thank you for your patience as the teams work to address the issue.**

## Deploy Azure Logic App on AKS using an ARM Template

The following README will guide you on how to deploy a "Ready to Go" environment so you can start using [Azure Arc-enabled app services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration) deployed on [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes) cluster using [Azure ARM Template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview).

By the end of this guide, you will have an AKS cluster deployed with an App Service plan, a sample Azure Logic App that reads messages from an Azure storage account queue and creates blobs in an Azure storage account container, and a Microsoft Windows Server 2022 (Datacenter) Azure VM installed & pre-configured with all the required tools needed to work with Azure Arc-enabled app services.

> **Note: Currently, Azure Arc-enabled app services is in preview.**

## Prerequisites

* Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

* [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.25.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  az --version
  ```

* [Generate SSH Key](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/create-ssh-keys-detailed) (or use existing ssh key).

* Create Azure service principal (SP). To deploy this scenario, an Azure service principal assigned with multiple RBAC roles is required:

  * "Contributor" - Required for provisioning Azure resources
  * "Security admin" - Required for installing Cloud Defender Azure-Arc enabled Kubernetes extension and dismiss alerts
  * "Security reader" - Required for being able to view Azure-Arc enabled Kubernetes Cloud Defender extension findings

    To create it login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/).

    ```shell
    az login
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Contributor"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Security admin"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role "Security reader"
    ```

    For example:

    ```shell
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Contributor"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Security admin"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "JumpstartArcAppSvc" --role "Security reader"
    ```

    Output should look like this:

    ```json
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcAppSvc",
    "name": "http://AzureArcAppSvc",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```

    > **Note: It is optional, but highly recommended, to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).**

## Automation Flow

For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

* User is editing the ARM template parameters file (1-time edit). These parameters values are being used throughout the deployment.

* Main [_azuredeploy_ ARM template](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json) will initiate the deployment of the linked ARM templates:

  * [_clientVm_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/clientVm.json) - Deploys the client Windows VM. This is where all user interactions with the environment are made from.
  * [_logAnalytics_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/logAnalytics.json) - Deploys Azure Log Analytics workspace to support Azure Arc-enabled app services logs uploads.

* User remotes into client Windows VM, which automatically kicks off the [_AppServicesLogonScript_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/AppServicesLogonScript.ps1) PowerShell script that deploy the AKS cluster and will configure Azure Arc-enabled app services Kubernetes environment on the AKS cluster.

    > **Note: Notice the AKS cluster will be deployed via the PowerShell script automation.**

## Deployment

As mentioned, this deployment will leverage ARM templates. You will deploy a single template that will initiate the entire automation for this scenario.

* The deployment is using the ARM template parameters file. Before initiating the deployment, edit the [_azuredeploy.parameters.json_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.json) file located in your local cloned repository folder. An example parameters file is located [here](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/azuredeploy.parameters.example.json).

  * _`sshRSAPublicKey`_ - Your SSH public key
  * _`spnClientId`_ - Your Azure service principal id
  * _`spnClientSecret`_ - Your Azure service principal secret
  * _`spnTenantId`_ - Your Azure tenant id
  * _`windowsAdminUsername`_ - Client Windows VM Administrator name
  * _`windowsAdminPassword`_ - Client Windows VM Password. Password must have 3 of the following: 1 lower case character, 1 upper case character, 1 number, and 1 special character. The value must be between 12 and 123 characters long.
  * _`myIpAddress`_ - Your local public IP address. This is used to allow remote RDP and SSH connections to the client Windows VM and AKS cluster.
  * _`logAnalyticsWorkspaceName`_ - Unique name for the deployment log analytics workspace.
  * _`kubernetesVersion`_ - AKS version
  * _`dnsPrefix`_ - AKS unique DNS prefix
  * _`deployAppService`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and a Web App. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployAPIMgmt`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy a self-hosted Azure API Management gateway. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployFunction`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and an Azure Function application. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**false**_.
  * _`deployLogicApp`_ - Boolean that sets whether or not to deploy App Service plan and an Azure Logic App. For this scenario, we leave it set to _**true**_.
  * _`templateBaseUrl`_ - GitHub URL to the deployment template - filled in by default to point to [Microsoft/Azure Arc](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc) repository, but you can point this to your forked repo as well.

* To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the local cloned [deployment folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template) and run the below command:

    ```shell
    az group create --name <Name of the Azure resource group> --location <Azure Region>
    az deployment group create \
    --resource-group <Name of the Azure resource group> \
    --name <The name of this deployment> \
    --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/azure_arc/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json \
    --parameters <The *azuredeploy.parameters.json* parameters file location>
    ```

    > **Note: Make sure that you are using the same Azure resource group name as the one you've just used in the `azuredeploy.parameters.json` file**

    For example:

    ```shell
    az group create --name Arc-AppSvc-Demo --location "East US"
    az deployment group create \
    --resource-group Arc-AppSvc-Demo \
    --name arcappsvc \
    --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/azure_arc/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/azuredeploy.json \
    --parameters azuredeploy.parameters.json
    ```

    > **Note: The deployment time for this scenario can take ~5-10min**

    > **Note: Since Azure Arc-enabled app services is [currently in preview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#public-preview-limitations), deployment regions availability is limited to East US and West Europe.**

* Once Azure resources has been provisioned, you will be able to see it in Azure portal. At this point, the resource group should have **7 various Azure resources** deployed.

    ![ARM template deployment completed](./01.png)

    ![New Azure resource group with all resources](./02.png)

## Windows Login & Post Deployment

* Now that first phase of the automation is completed, it is time to RDP to the client VM using its public IP.

    ![Client VM public IP](./03.png)

* At first login, as mentioned in the "Automation Flow" section above, the [_AppServicesLogonScript_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_app_services_jumpstart/aks/arm_template/artifacts/AppServicesLogonScript.ps1) PowerShell logon script will start its run.

* Let the script run its course and **do not close** the PowerShell session as this will be done for you once completed. Once the script will finish its run, the logon script PowerShell session will be closed, the Windows wallpaper will change and the Azure Logic App will be deployed on the cluster and ready to use.

    > **Note: As you will notice from the screenshots below, during the Azure Arc-enabled app services environment, the _log-processor_ service pods will be restarted and will go through multiple Kubernetes pod lifecycle stages. This is normal and can safely be ignored. To learn more about the various Azure Arc-enabled app services Kubernetes components, visit the official [Azure Docs page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#pods-created-by-the-app-service-extension).**

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./04.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./05.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./06.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./07.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./08.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./09.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./10.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./11.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./12.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./13.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./14.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./15.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./16.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./17.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./18.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./19.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./20.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./21.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./22.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./23.png)

    ![PowerShell logon script run](./24.png)

  Once the script finishes its run, the logon script PowerShell session will be closed, the Windows wallpaper will change, and both the app service plan and the Azure Logic App deployed on the cluster will be ready.

    ![Wallpaper change](./25.png)

* Since this scenario is deploying both the app service plan and a sample Logic App application, you will also notice additional, newly deployed Azure resources in the resources group. The important ones to notice are:

  * **Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster** - Azure Arc-enabled app services are using this resource to deploy the app services [cluster extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-extensions), as well as using Azure Arc [Custom locations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-custom-locations).

  * **Custom location** - Provides a way for tenant administrators to use their Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters as a target location for deploying Azure services.

  * [**App Service Kubernetes Environment**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-arc-integration#app-service-kubernetes-environment) - The App Service Kubernetes environment resource is required before apps may be created. It enables configuration common to apps in the custom location, such as the default DNS suffix.

  * [**App Service plan**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-hosting-plans) - In App Service (Web Apps, API Apps, or Mobile Apps), an app always runs in an App Service plan. In addition, Azure Logic Apps also has the option of running in an App Service plan. An App Service plan defines a set of compute resources for an Azure Logic App to run.

  * [**Azure Logic App**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview) - Azure Logic Apps is a cloud-based platform for creating and running automated workflows that integrate your apps, data, services, and systems.

  * [**API Connection**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/connectors/apis-list)A connector provides prebuilt operations that you can use as steps in your Logic Apps workflows.

  * [Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) - Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps professionals. Use it to monitor your live applications.

  * Azure Storage Account - The storage account deployed in this scenario is used for hosting the [queue storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/queues/storage-queues-introduction) and [blob storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction) where the Azure Logic App will be creating files in response to messages in a queue.

  ![Additional Azure resources in the resource group](./26.png)

* In this scenario, **a sample Jumpstart Azure Logic App** was deployed. To view the deployed Logic App, simply click the Azure Logic App resource.

  ![Azure Logic App resource](./27.png)

* You can view the Logic App workflow by clicking on "Workflows" and then clicking the workflow name "CreateBlobFromQueueMessage".

  ![Azure Logic App detail](./28.png)

  ![Azure Logic App detail](./29.png)

* To demonstrate the messaging queuing element and to show how blobs are created when messages are read from the queue storage, the Azure Logic App deployment script also generates 10 sample queue messages. To view it, click on the newly created storage account and go to the "Queues" section where you will see the queue named "jumpstart-queue". Note that the queue will be empty because the workflow automatically deletes messages from the queue after creating a new blob in the "jumpstart-blobs" container.

  ![Azure storage account](./30.png)

  ![Azure storage queue](./31.png)

* Go back to the Azure storage account and click on Containers. From here you will see the "jumpstart-blobs" container. Open this container and view the blobs that were created by the Logic App.

  ![Azure storage container](./32.png)

  ![Azure storage blobs](./33.png)

* Alternatively, you can view the storage details using the Azure Storage Explorer client application installed automatically in the Client VM or using the Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view.

  ![Azure Storage Explorer client application storage queue](./34.png)

  ![Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view](./35.png)

  ![Azure Storage Explorer portal-based view storage queue](./36.png)

* To generate your own blobs using the Logic App, create a new message in the queue by using Azure Storage Explorer and clicking Add Message as shown below.

  ![Add queue message](./37.png)

  ![Add queue message](./38.png)

  ![Add queue message](./39.png)

* Go back to the storage container and see the new added blob that was created automatically by the Logic App.

  ![New message in storage queue](./40.png)

* As part of the deployment, an Application Insights instance was also provisioned to provide you with relevant performance and application telemetry.

  ![Application Insights instance](./41.png)

## Cluster extensions

In this scenario, the Azure Arc-enabled app services cluster extension was deployed and used throughout this scenario in order to deploy the app services infrastructure.

* In order to view cluster extensions, click on the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource Extensions settings.

  ![Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource](./42.png)

  ![Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster extensions settings](./43.png)

## Cleanup

* If you want to delete the entire environment, simply delete the deployed resource group from the Azure portal.

  ![Delete Azure resource group](./44.png)
